---
title: Audits conducted in Front-Commerce for client projects
authors: [paul]
date: 2023-08-11T12:00
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

When it comes to developing an e-commerce website, there are many different
areas that require constant attention. Project teams may introduce performance
issues or forget important features that could negatively impact the user
experience. That's why audits are crucial to ensure that the website is meeting
high standards and delivering a great user experience.

At Front-Commerce, we conduct thorough audits on our client projects and provide
recommendations to improve website performance and user experience. In this blog
post, we will discuss the key points we measure during our audits.

<!--truncate-->

## üöÄ Performance

Performance is a critical factor in the success of an e-commerce store. A slow
website can lead to frustrated customers and lost sales. During our audits, we
measure the performance of our client's websites in two key areas: server and
webperfs.

### Server

During our audits, we check if the website's server is performing well. We make
sure that things like cache and data loaders are implemented correctly to
improve server performance. We also verify if the cache strategies are properly
implemented to
[reduce the number of requests made to external services](https://developers.front-commerce.com/blog/audit-optimization-number-of-external-requests).
Another thing we check is that the server-side rendering (SSR) is implemented
properly to improve the <abbr title="Time To First Byte">TTFB</abbr>. We also
ensure that there are no memory leaks that can negatively impact the
application's stability.

### Webperfs

<p>
  Another important part of our performance audit is the{" "}
  <abbr title="Web Performance">webperfs</abbr> analysis. webperfs measures the
  website speed, responsiveness, and overall user experience. This includes
  checking if the website's fonts and images are optimized for the store and if
  the JavaScript bundle size is at an optimal level. We also check if important
  pages are preloaded to improve the perceived performance for end users.
</p>

## üé® Theme customization

We understand that every e-commerce store has unique branding requirements.
During our audits, we check if the website's theme has been customized to match
the client's branding guidelines. We also ensure that any customizations do not
negatively impact the website's performance or user experience.

## ü¶ª Accessibility

We believe that all websites should be accessible to everyone, regardless of
their abilities. During our audits, we check if the website meets accessibility
standards, such as having proper alt tags for images, keyboard navigation
support, and proper contrast ratios.

## üñåÔ∏è Styleguide

Consistency is key when it comes to creating a great user experience. During our
audits, we check if the website's style guide is consistent throughout the
website. We also ensure that the website's typography, colors, and spacing are
in line with the client's branding guidelines.

## üì® Links received by e-mail

A customer journey extends beyond the web UI and encompasses email interactions.
That is why we also check the links that are received by email, as it ensures
that customers can access the correct pages of the website, leading to a better
overall user experience.

## üîó Audit broken links in the store

In a project, developers could have forgotten to update a hardcoded link, or
content writers may have contributed unfinished content or made typos. That's
why during our audits, we perform a thorough check for broken links and provide
recommendations to fix them, ensuring that the website's user experience and SEO
are not negatively impacted.

## üîç SEO

Having good SEO is crucial to driving traffic to the website. During our audits,
we check for the following:

### 404 & redirections

We check for any 404 errors and ensure that the website has proper redirections
in place. This is especially important when migrating to Front-Commerce from
another platform, as the links may not be in the same format. This can cause 404
errors for any pages previously crawled by search engine robots, such as Google.

### Robots.txt

We ensure that the website's robots.txt file is properly configured to allow
search engines to crawl the website's pages.

### Sitemap

We check if the website has a sitemap.xml file and that it is correctly
generated. More information about this can be found
[here](https://developers.front-commerce.com/docs/2.x/advanced/production-ready/sitemap)

### Meta tags and microdata

We ensure that the website's meta tags and microdata are properly configured to
improve the website's search engine rankings and visibility when sharing on
social platforms.

## üì± PWA (Progressive Web App)

We ensure that the store meets the standards for a PWA. We provide
recommendations to improve the website's PWA capabilities.

## üìà Analytics

During our audits, we check if the website has proper analytics tracking in
place. This helps our clients to make data-driven decisions to improve their
website's performance and user experience. More information about this can be
found [here](https://developers.front-commerce.com/docs/2.x/category/analytics).

## üßë‚Äçüíª Code quality audit

Auditing code quality in a project is essential for several reasons. Firstly, it
helps identify and rectify potential bugs, vulnerabilities, and performance
issues, ensuring a more stable and secure application (as mentioned above).
Secondly, it promotes maintainability and ensures that the project can be
updated during its life. By adhering to Front-Commerce best practices,
developers can upgrade to newer Front-Commerce versions more easily and with
less risk of introducing bugs. Finally, our code quality audit encourages
consistent coding standards and improves overall code readability. This leads to
a more robust, efficient, and sustainable codebase.

## ü™Ñ Application stability

Application stability is a crucial aspect of a composable architecture, like the
one used by Front-Commerce. It refers to the website's ability to remain
resilient to external systems outages, such as server downtime or configuration
errors. Ensuring stability is essential for a front-end solution like
Front-Commerce, as it directly impacts the user experience and the website's
ability to drive sales. Front-Commerce conducts thorough audits to identify
potential issues that could affect stability and provides recommendations to
improve resilience and ensure a reliable website.

## ‚ú® Magic Button

We believe in going above and beyond for our clients. During our audits, we look
for opportunities to add additional features to the website that will improve
the contribution experience and improve the merchant‚Äôs team productivity. Our
`Magic Button` feature allows contributors to seamlessly improve the content on
the website with direct links to the content source. We ensure that the
contribution mode activation is secure and that any custom content is wrapped
with the `StorefrontContent` component. More information about this can be found
[here](https://developers.front-commerce.com/docs/2.x/category/magic-button).

## ‚òÅÔ∏è Prod server & CI

We check if the website is properly deployed to the production server and if the
continuous integration (CI) process is working correctly. This ensures that the
website is always up-to-date and running smoothly.

## üóíÔ∏è Audit logs

After conducting a thorough audit of the website, it's important to keep track
of any bugs or issues that may arise once the site is live. While we analyze the
codebase and test the application during the audit, we believe that analyzing
application logs and monitoring metrics is also crucial once the site is live.
This allows us to detect any smaller bugs or performance issues that may have
been missed during testing. We follow up on our audits with log analysis a few
days after the project is live to ensure that everything is running smoothly and
to address any issues that may arise. By addressing these smaller issues, we can
improve the overall quality of the application.

## ‚òëÔ∏è Checklist before production

Before we proceed with the audit, we have a checklist that should ideally be
done by integrators in the project. This checklist includes items such as
verifying that the environment is properly configured, that the data has been
properly migrated, and that there are no broken links or missing assets. You can
find a detailed checklist in our documentation
[here](https://developers.front-commerce.com/docs/2.x/advanced/production-ready/checklist-before-production).

## Conclusion

In summary, audits are essential for ensuring that e-commerce websites meet the
high standards necessary to drive sales and provide an exceptional user
experience. At Front-Commerce, we take great pride in conducting comprehensive
audits and providing our clients with actionable recommendations to enhance
their website's performance and user experience. By partnering with us, our
clients can rest assured that their website is optimized for success and
delivering the best possible experience for their customers.
